[MUSIC]
>> Off Camera 1: If you go back up, let's
say in our JSON we had one interesting
moments that had two type middles,
let's say, that wasn't actually unique and
we just thought it was,
what would happen in our code here?
>> Jafar Husain: Good question.
Good question.
Well, this case, nothing,
because we're running it through zip.
So if one element,
one array has two elements, and
the other array has one element,
zip just stop zipping up.
Just like when the zipper doesn't
have a tooth on one side, right?
You're like, struggling with that zipper.
It's because, it stops as soon as
there isn't an element on both sides.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah.
That may or may not be a bug or what
you want but that's how it'll behave..
Yeah?
>> Off Camera 2: There's a question about
testing, when building up
these long chains of commands,
what is the best strategy to debug them?
>> Jafar Husain: So, that to me,
is a really important question, right.
It is not that you cannot
debug these programs.
It's that you can't debug them in
the way that you're used to, right.
The way, when you're used to debugging
imperative programs, which do something,
and then they do something else,
and then they do something else.
Sure enough, the debugging tools we
have are built to accommodate that.
Step in, step over, so on and so forth.
But let's debug this, let's actually
see if we can debug this program.
It is unquestionable.
The first thing I wanna level with you.
It's harder to debug this.
There's no two ways about it it's easier
if you just have 15 lines of code and
you just wanna step over
them one on another.
What we're doing here though,
is one of the reasons it's so
much harder to debug this code, is cuz
we're taking a large amount of code,
that we would have written in line, and
we're making it somebody else's
problem and putting it into a library.
That's a good problem to have.
Right, now all of a sudden the code you
would have had to write is now being
written by somebody else.
And so often, if you're trying to step
through your code kind of jumping
around, right.
But understand, remember why that's
happening, it's because you're taking on
an enormous amount of code and
somebody else is now writing it for you.
So, yes,
it is harder because all the sudden
somebody else is calling your code, right.
That's what asynchronous
program is all about.
You're handing your code to somebody
else and trusting them to call it.
Well, that makes it harder to
follow the control flow, right?
But that, you get amazing things for being
able to do asynchronous programs, right?
We get more concurrency,
more efficient things,
more reactive programs that
respond to user interfaces.
So let's not forget why we get that.
But how do we debug a program like this?
Well instead of step over, step over,
step over, it's set break point,
play, set break point, play.
So you figure out where the next point
is in the code, or your code is, right?
Here, let's actually try this, you can
see what I mean, I'll do it in Chrome,
cuz I'm a little more familiar
with the the chrome debugger.
I'm sure you can do that with Firefox,
I'm just not Firefox proficient,
so if you are Firefox proficient don't
let that stop you from using Firefox,
a wonderful browse.
I'm gonna zoom up here to maybe the last
place we had some working code.
>> Off Camera 3: Yeah.
Firefox is
more finicky about when
it catches the debugger.
Like you have to,
Chrome always catches it no matter what.
But Firefox,
you kinda have to have the debugger open.
>> Jafar Husain: Opt into it, I see.
>> Off Camera 3: Like that or
it will [INAUDIBLE].
>> Jafar Husain: There we go.
So we got a spot in the debugger, right.
And so,
you can always put a break point or
a debugger semi colon statement inside of
your own function that you pass to map.
And so, this gives me the opportunity
to examine variables, right?
And like is movieList what I expect it is?
I know it's not working right now,
but it usually does.
Sorry, in this resolution I'm not sure if
the pop ups happening somewhere else or.
>> Jafar Husain: You can always
explicitly add a watch expression.
So I can look at the video, right,
that's being passed in the map.
I don't know if that's big enough.
>> Jafar Husain: Does that makes sense?
So if I wanted to step through multiple
functions, right, I would go through,
add another break point again,
it's a bad example, and
then just play to the next the next
function that I own, right.
So if I've got another
function it's past a filter or
reduce or a zip,
I can put a breakpoint in there and
then play instead of trying to
step over and step into there.
Does that make sense?
So that just, you can still examine
every single line of code that you write
with a debugger, and
check the variable values.
It's just that you need to use the play,
the breakpoint and
play strategy, rather than the step
over and step in strategy.
And so
that's how you debug this type of code.
Yeah?
>> Off Camera 4: Sometimes I've notice
I can't set a breakpoint inside
the asynchronous section
until I hit it above.
Is that a case or do [CROSSTALK].
>> Jafar Husain: I mean,
debuggers have bugs.
I've run into that problem.
I have run into that problem myself.
Sometimes I can't set a breakpoint and
then something weird happens and I can.
Sometimes it has to do with optimizations
that the actual JavaScript interpreter is
doing and so, for example, I think
the reason why it's not displaying,
I'm not sure why it's not displaying,
to me this is a bug.
It should add it, but if we have to
watch we should be able to see it.
Maybe this, no interesting, not available.
Yeah well, and
you know what I think is going on here,
even though you should be able
to see a movie list, you can't.
And because Chrome is actually doing a lot
of optimization, it's saying, hey you're
not using movie list in this function and
it's actually not making it available.
So if you run into that problem,
there's a very easy solution,
which is you can just throw in
a console log of movie list inside of
the function to force Chrome to make
it available inside that function.
So then you can then you
can add a watch to it.
Yep.
>> Speaker 6: What about unit testing?
>> Jafar Husain: What about unit testing.
Well the wonderful thing about this,
at least we haven't talked about any about
asynchronous programming at all yet,
right.
We've just talked about loop less
programming, this entire day has been a,
how to program without loops.
Right, and so unit testing honestly,
it's no difference, right?
When you make a unit test
you write a function and
then you wanna confirm that
function outputs the right result.
If inside of your function you happen to
use this style of coding versus loops,
that doesn't make it any more or
less testable.
Right, you're still testing that that
function returns the right result.
So testing is totally orthogonal to this.
Now it's asynchronous testing
is a challenge, right, and
well we can talk about that later on
I would make it to be async stuff.
But most framework support async testing,
the point is you
basically have to asynchronously signal
when the test is failing or succeeding.
So if you use Mocha,
almost every JavaScript framework supports
some form of asynchronous testing.